As I am today talking about only on
the left, I would say that to feel
miserable for nothing at all is also
wrong, is being unjust to yourself.
The people who are left sided must
know that they are the Spirit,
that they are that beauty which has to come,
which has to express itself. That they are not
the people who have to suffer all the time and
to live like miserable people. They are not. But
because they take so much upon themselves, bear
so much upon themselves, they become like that.
And to avoid that bearing up they may take to
some other habits, you see. Many people take to
alcohol also for reason because they can’t bear
the pangs of life, they can’t bear it. That’s
why they take to it. But once the Spirit is
awakened within you, you become so strong,
you become so joyous, so spontaneous that
all these things drop out, all those things,
so-called diseases, so-called habits, just drop
out and you become a new, blooming personality.
Now the basics of having this center
within you – you can blame God for that,
“Why did He give us these centers on the left hand
side, what was the need? He should not have given
these left sided ones, so we would have been
just in the center to go.” But the trouble is,
the human beings have to know in their own
freedom, how to deal with themselves. They have
to learn little hard way the wisdom. They have
to know by going to extremes they have suffered.
They have to realize it because if they have to
become truly, absolutely free they have to rise
in their wisdom. If they’re not wise people,
then they cannot enter into the Kingdom of
God because they’ll be abandoned people.
Say, people who are abandoned, who don’t
understand any laws or regulations, if you get
them in England, we’ll have to put them in jail.
In the same way, human beings who have
not got that wisdom within themselves –
through sufferings only one learns, but we should
not ask for suffering. When we ask for sufferings,
we are asking actually for mistakes to begin
with. How will you suffer if you do not commit
mistakes? So when we ask for sufferings we are
committing mistakes. So what we should ask for is
nothing but our Spirit. And if you ask for your
Spirit, it is your own and you have to get it,
it is in your own right that you’re going to
get it. Is no way that I’m obliging you or doing
something special for you, it’s all there. You
are like a light which is just to be enlightened
because I’m an enlightened light and you become
an enlightened light, you can enlighten other
lights also. It’s very simple. If you become
an enlightened light, you can enlighten others.
You don’t have to bother about anything else then.
You become an enlightened light yourself, that’s
the point. It is all there, it is all your own,
you have to just have it. It is as simple as that.
There is nothing very complicated as these people
make it or anything that these philosophers have
put before you. Nothing of the kind. It’s very
simple, it is within you, it is spontaneous,
it is a living process, as in living
process you have become human beings,
you are going to become super human beings. It’s
absolutely spontaneous, you can’t pay for it.
How can you pay? I mean, absurd
it is! If it is a living process
how can you pay? How much do you pay to the tree
to grow up? I mean in anything living, do we pay
anything? How much do we pay our nose to breathe?
Can we pay for it? It’s absurd, it’s ridiculous.
Can we pay for it? We cannot, it’s a living
process, we have to become, an egg has to become a
chick. Now how much do you pay an egg to become a
chick? Or how much does the egg pay to the mother
for becoming a chicken? It’s that ridiculous,
but we never understand that living things are so
spontaneous. We never see living things, we live
with matter, we live with the dead, not with the
living things. If you start watching a tree, you
start watching a flower, how it becomes a fruit.
You can’t even watch because it does it so
slowly, you can’t even watch a flower becoming
a fruit. Suddenly you find all coming up. Like
when I came to London from India I found all the
trees were bare, absolutely like dry sticks,
absolutely like dry sticks. Within a week,
what I find is the green coming up; and within
second week it was all lush, you can’t believe it.
We never even notice, we take it for granted, it’s
happening. How does it happen? It’s a miraculous
thing. If you see it, it’s miraculous! How
these flowers, for example the particular
flowers are only on a particular tree and others,
another, are on another tree. How does it happen?
Who chooses them? Who puts them in proper shape?
Who organizes all that? And this is what one has
to realize and that is the All -pervading
Power of God that does all the living work.
And once you become that – the Spirit –
then this power starts flowing through
you. You feel the power through
you as Christ was touched and
He said some power has gone to someone, like that.
You just become a medium of that power flowing.
But you are empowered to manoeuvre
it, to manage it, to understand it.
You know completely about it, you know how
to give it, you know to how to work it out,
you know how to cure others, cure yourself. You
know the complete working of your machinery.
Apart from that, you get the powers to overcome
all the problems of your own machinery also.
It’s so fantastic, whole thing sounds very
fantastic because we have never seen this
before. But to us it doesn’t sound fantastic
when we see all these flowers suddenly turning
into fruits. It doesn’t sound. But we
see human beings turning into fruits,
then it sounds very fantastic, “How can that be?”
It has never happened before. Only one person
would get realization and it was such a difficult
thing and nobody got it. How is it today?
I say, it’s the blossom time, which
is been promised, which is been
already prophesized. Even a great
poet in your country, William Blake,
has prophesized it. He said these times will
come, when men of God will become prophets
and these prophets will have power to make
others prophets. I mean nobody could be more
precise than Blake, I tell you. He was so great
to say this will happen and this is what we have
to expect. when we go to anybody for seeking.
Have we become prophets? And what is a prophet?
Prophet is a person who is a collective being
and who knows all about it, who is the master.
We call prophet a master. And that’s what you
have to become: The master! And that mastery
is very simple because it’s all built within you
just it has to be connected. Like anything like a
television set is to be connected to the mains,
it’s all built in, it’s there, it just starts
working. In the same way you are that, you are
that. Just it is to be connected. Whatever may
be your caste, community, race, nationality,
shapes, heights – anything whatever you may be,
makes no difference because all of you have
got this great thing within you, this power
of a rebirth and you are to be born again,
and you will be born again. Why not today?